# React and JSX
## What is JSX and how to use it

cover_image: https://ferrariwebdevelopment.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/jsx.jpeg


`JSX` is the language used in React. It's similar to `HTML` or `XML`, which is a superset of `HTML`.

We write our React components in `JSX` but the browser doesn't understand `JSX` natively, so we need to have a way to translate `JSX` into Javascript.
When we translate one language into another one, we say that we *transpile*, the language.

`JSX` gets transpiled into Javascript by a program (in our case written in Javascript) that is called a transpiler.
A transpiler is a program that takes code in one language and translates it into another language. The transpiler that is used often with React is Babel.
You can find detailed information about Babel at its [home page](https://babeljs.io).

So, to quickly summarize what we have learned so far:

- we write our React components in a HTML-like language called JSX
- the JSX is transpiled down to Javascript
- the browser executes the transpiled Javascript.

In order to write `JSX` we need support for it into our files, that's why we import React at the top of all our component files.
Without this import, the browser would have trouble understanding the `JSX` syntax in our Javascript files.
The way we import React is to add this import statement at the top of each component file:

```
import React from 'react';
```

This works, as long as we install the necessary Node modules to work with React.
One way to work with React and create and manage React application is through
the `create-react-app` module.
Tomorrow we will learn more about `create-react-app` and how to use it to
jumpstart a React application.
