# Add a new item to a collection with Axios
## How to make a post request in a React application

We have seen in previous articles how to grab a collection of items in a GET
request using the Axios library in our React application.

Let's see now how to add an item.

We will add a button to our list view that shows an Add Item form. This form
will have fields for item name, description, price, etc.
Once the form is filled it will be sumitted and a new item will be created in
our collection.

In order to do this operation we need to create a few items:

1. a new link in the item list that shows the form
2. a route that loads the form component
3. an actual form component, that we will call ItemForm

In this article we will stop at creating and showing the ItemForm. We will learn
how to submit the form in a future article.

Since we have a clear roadmap of what we have to build, let's start by creating
a link to access the form.

In our item list component, let's add a link to the new item form.

```
<Link to="/item-form">Add a new item</Link>

```

We also must remember to import the Link component from react-router-dom:

```
import { Link } from 'react-router-dom';
```

In order for the link to work, we also need to create a route that points to the
ItemForm component: 

```
<Route
  path="/item-form"
  render={props => <ItemForm {...props} />}
/>
```

We add this route to App.js, with all the other routes.

Now that we have a link and a route, we only need to create the actual
ItemForm component in components/ItemForm.js

Let's start by fleshing out the basic structure of a React component.

```
class ItemForm extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h2>Add new item</h2>
        <form>

          <button>Add new item</button>
        </form>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

Think for a moment: what is the job of this component? 
This component has two jobs to do.

Job number one is to capture some data from the user. To perform this job ItemForm displays
form fields where data is entered. The data is what's needed to create a new
Item, that is: the item name, description, image url, price,
etc.

The second job ItemForm has to do is send this captured data to its parent
component, App.js so a new item can be created.
This job will be handled by a function inside ItemForm called handleSubmit() that we are going to write shortly.

ItemForm doesn't have to worry about actually creating the new Item. The actual Item creation is handled by App.js.

But there is one thing that ItemForm needs to do in order to perform its two
jobs well. It needs to keep track of the data that is entered and it needs to
package it into a neat object so it can be sent to App.js inside the
handleSubmit() function.

In other words, ItemForm needs some state where it can keep the data entered
into its fields until it's submitted.

Let's add state to ItemForm and inside the state object we can add an item property that represents the new item. We initialize the new item with its own properties set to empty strings, because we don't have any data yet:

```
state = {
  item: {
      name: '',
      price: '',
      imageUrl: '',
      description: '',
    }
}
```

Let's summarize what we have done so far.

At this point we have a link in the item list that opens up a new item form.
The form has a place to keep the data necessary to create a new item. This place is the component state.

The form also has a submit button but there are no fields for entering data. That's what we are going to add next.
We'll see how to add form input fields in the next article.



