# Dispatch an action in a React component
## How to connect a React component to action creator

cover_image: https://ferrariwebdevelopment.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/20191029-connect2.jpeg


We have seen how to connect a component to an action creator through the `connect` function made available by the React Redux library.

But connecting a component to an action creator is not enough. In order to actually trigger the action we need to listen to an event and fire up a function that calls the action creator that we have connected.

Since we passed the action creator to connect, this function is now available to the component through the `props`.
Here's the relevant code we put at the bottom of our `Title` component file:

```js
export default connect(
  () => {},
  { turnTitleGreen }
)(Title);
```

In this case, the action creator is `turnTitleGreen` and we pass it to `connect` inside the object in the second argument.
This syntax:

```js
{ turnTitleGreen }
```

is equivalent to saying this:

```js
{turnTitleGreen: turnTitleGreen}
```

So, we effectively created a property on this object. The property is called `turnTitleGreen` and the value is the `turnTitleGreen` function that was imported from `actions/index.js`

The `connect` function sets things up so our `Title` component now has a `prop` called `turnTitleGreen`, set to the value of the action creator.
This means that we can invoke the action creator like this:

```js
this.props.turnTitleGreen();
```

and the action creator will be called, and will dispatch the appropriate action to the reducer.

How do we invoke `turnTitleGreen`, though?
Let's say we want to turn the title green when someone clicks a button.
We add an event handler to the button with the `onClick` property pointing to
a function in the component:
Here's the button:

```js
<button onClick={this.handleTitleGreen}>Change title color</button>
```

Now we need to define `handleTitleGreen` inside our component:

```js
handleTitleGreen = e => {
  e.preventDefault();
  this.props.turnTitleGreen();
}
```

We have seen these types of functions before. First we *prevent default*, so the page won't be reloaded as a result of clicking the button.
Then we call the `turnTitleGreen` function that lives on the `props`.
This sends the `TURN_TITLE_GREEN` action to the reducer and the reducer returns a new state object with the `titleColor` property changed to `'green'`.

In `Title`, the actual title is inside an `h1` component. `h1` has a style property with the text color set to the value of the `titleColor` property on the state. When the reducer changes this property, the text color gets updated accordingly.

```js
<h1 style={{ color: this.props.titleColor }} >
  This is the title
</h1>
```

And with this we have come full loop: we click a button that triggers an event.
The event calls a function that calls an action creator.
The action creator dispatches an action that ultimately changes the title in our component.