# NASA Photo of the Day 3
## Building an app that connects to a remote API to demonstrate Redux middleware

cover_image: https://ferrariwebdevelopment.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/20191107-nasa-photo3.jpeg



We are building an application that loads a photo from a remote `API`: the *NASA Photo of the Day*.

The application will be in one of three different states:

- `LOADING`, when we start fetching the photo
- `SUCCESS`, if the photo is fetched successfully
- `FAILURE`, if there is an error fetching the photo.

Our action creator needs to transition to one of these states by sending the appropriate action to the reducer.

The actions sent by the action creator will be one of these three types:

- `FETCH_PHOTO_START`
- `FETCH_PHOTO_SUCCESS`
- `FETCH_PHOTO_FAILURE`

We started our by simply sending out the `FETCH_PHOTO_START` action type.
We created an action creator called `getPhoto` that is defined in `actions/index.js`
This is the code we have so far:

```js
// src/actions/index.js

export const FETCH_PHOTO_START = 'FETCH_PHOTO_START';

export const getPhoto = () => {
  return {
    type: FETCH_PHOTO_START
  }
}
```

### Triggering the action

Now that we have an action ready we might as well pull the trigger. We want to trigger the action with a button click. So, we add an `onClick` event to our *Fetch Photo* button.

```js
// src/components/NASAPhoto.js

<button onClick={fetchPhoto}>Fetch Photo</button>
```

The `onClick` event is associated with a function named `fetchPhoto` that we need to define in the `NASAPhoto` component:

```js
// src/components/NASAPhoto.js

const fetchPhoto = e => {
  e.preventDefault();
  props.getPhoto();
}
```

`fetchPhoto` takes an event (our button click) as the argument. Inside of the function body, we first prevent the default browser action of reloading the page after a button click.

Next, we call the `getPhoto` action creator that is on the `props`.
One thing to note is that we haven't yet added `getPhoto` to the `props`, so we need to do it now.

To add this action creator to the props we just import the action creator file at the top of `NASAPhoto.js` and add the `getPhoto` function to the `connect` function at the bottom:

```js
import { getPhoto } from '../actions';

// ... existing code ...

export default connect(
  mapStateToProps,
  { getPhoto }
)(NASAPhoto);
```

After these changes, if we click on the *Fetch Photo* button we can see our spinner being loaded. Great! We have successfully entered into the `LOADING` state.

Now we have to find a way to actually *fetching* the photo by making an API call.
Where would we handle that? Inside the action creator, of course!

We will see how to add this functionality in the next article.


---

NASA Photo of the Day (3 part series)
1. [NASA Photo of the Day 1](https://cesare.substack.com/p/nasa-photo-of-the-day-reactredux)
2. [NASA Photo of the Day 2](https://cesare.substack.com/p/nasa-photo-of-the-day-2)
3. [NASA Photo of the Day 3](https://cesare.substack.com/p/nasa-photo-of-the-day-3)

This was originally posted on: https://cesare.substack.com/p/nasa-photo-of-the-day-3