# How to implement a logout method in an Express application
## Destroying the session to log out a user

tagged_headline: How to implement a logout method in an Express application  #expressjs #api #authentication #sessions #webdev #backend


Now that we are able to log in a user in our Express application, after it's being authenticated using a session, we can think of setting up a logout method.

In our application we have a specific router that defines all the authorization routes, called authRouter, so let's set up the logout route handler there as well.

Now the question is: what HTTP method are we going to use for the logout endpoint?

We could use a variety of methods, like POST or GET, but in my opinion, the most logical method to use is the DELETE method.

The reason I would use DELETE is because all we will be doing as a result of calling this route handler is a delete, or destroy, operation. We will destroy the cookie, and by doing so we will take authorization away from the user, so they would be effectively unable to reach protected endpoints.


```
router.delete('/logout', (req, res) => {

  // ... logout code here ...

})
```

A logout action only happens in the context of a session. So, we need to check if a session exists, and if so we call its destroy() method, so it will be removed.

```
if (req.session) {
  req.session.destroy();
}
```

If something goes wrong while destroying the session, the destroy() method gets passed an error object. We can handle this possible error with a callback function.
Our function will simply send back an error status code and a message.

If there is no error, we can send back a logout confirmation message instead. In this case, a success status code will be sent back by default.

```
req.session.destroy(err => {
  if (err) {
    res.status(400).send('Unable to log out')
  } else {
    res.send('Logout successful')
  }
});
```

Of course, if there is no session in the first place, we just end the request there and then, because there is nothing for us to do. We can't log out a user that's not logged in.

Here's the full code for the logout route handler:

```
// DELETE /api/auth/logout
router.delete('/logout', (req, res) => {
  if (req.session) {
    req.session.destroy(err => {
      if (err) {
        res.status(400).send('Unable to log out')
      } else {
        res.send('Logout successful')
      }
    });
  } else {
    res.end()
  }
})
```

If we now log in a user and then call the log out endpoint, the sessions will be destroyed, the user will get an appropriate logout message and won't be able to access restricted endpoints anymore.

[image]
